Which wireless technology has only limited reliability according to the speed of the movement of the mobile equipment	GSM	GPRS	UMTS	Bluetooth	WiFi	d
Wich wireless technology offers the highest transmission rates	GSM	GPRS	UMTS	Bluetooth	WiFi	e
What type of the attack is the attack guided by the following motivation: The attacker wants to steal information, damage your system because of a grievance, or alter your system to acquire tangible reward	Profit or revenge	Profit	Revenge	Gaming	Ego	a
Which one of the following attacks is NOT classified as a wireless attack	Snooping	Meet in the middle	Modification	Masquerading	Denial of Service	b
What is one-time password	You use one unique password for all your logons and connections	Each and every time you logon or connect, you use a new password	You use a password with a time stamp in them	A password that you use for generating the master key	A password that you use for generating a session key	b
In the wireless communication terminology what the abbreviation MAC stands for	Message Authentication Code	Media Access Controll	Mobile Authentication Code	Medium Accessibility Coding	Military Air Command	b
According to the IEEE 802 standard, what is the right ordring of the layers	MAC Layer, IP Layer, TCP Layer LLC Layer, Application Layer	MAC Layer, LLC Layer, IP Layer, TCP Layer, Application Layer	LLC Layer, MAC Layer, TCP Layer, IP Layer, Application Layer	MAC Layer, LLC Layer, TCP Layer, IP Layer, Application Layer	b
If a station moves only within BSS, the this type of mobility is known as	No transistion mobility	BSS Transition	Limited BSS transition ESS transition	ESS Transition	Limited ESS transition	a
If station or AP sends a notice for association termination, then that service is known as	Association	Reassociation	Disassociation	Deassociation	Quitassociation	c
The original 802.11 standard operated on the following frequencies	2.4GHz	2.4-5 GHz	900MHz	1.2 GHz	900MHz - 1.3GHz	a
The maximal data rate per channel in the original 802.11 standard was	54Mbps	16Mbps	11Mbps	4Mbps	2Mbps	e
How many IVs are available in WEP	2^24	2^64	2^128	0	24	a
What is true for WEP	Mobile station and the access point get a session key from the LAN	Mobile station have a master key and produces a session key for the access point	Mobile station sends a key to the access point	Mobile station have a different key than the access point	Mobile station shares key with access point	e
In Wi-Fi what is the gold standard	That was the first certification standard that came from Motorola	That was the second security standard that came from an alliance of hardware producers	The pin connection in the mobile equipment has to be made by gold	The pin connection in the mobile equipment has to be made by gold or silver	To obtain the Wi-Fi certification - the product has to be compatible with the set of gold standard products	e
What encryption algorithm is used in WPA	RC4 with 40 bits key	RC4 with 104 bits key	AES with 128 bits key	RC4 with 128 bits key	AES with 256 bits key	d
What is the length of the users secret key in GSM technology	There is no such a security in GSM	56 bits	64 bits	96bits	128 bits	e
In GSM, when a mobile is switched on, it registers its current location in a	Authentication Centre	Roaming Data Center	Visitor Location Register	Home Location Register	Nearest Base station	d
"Protect against someone tracking the location of the user or identifying calls made or from the user by eavesdropping on the radio path" is the following GSM security feature	Encryption	Handover	Authentication	Confidentiality	Anonymity	e
In UMTS what kind of protection provides the "Protection mode 2" of MPSec	Both integrity protection and encryption	Just integrity Protection	Just encryption	Just message authentication	No protection	a
What is the crucial protocol in IMS	DH key-exchange	AuC protocol	Session Initiation protocol	The proxy CSCF	The Interrogating CSCF	c
Which stream cipher is used for WEP encryption:	AES.	DES.	RC4.	RC5.	c
What is the length of the WEP initialization vector (IV):	24 bits.	32 bits.	48 bits.	64 bits.	a
How many messages are exchanged in the WEP shared key authentication protocol:	2.	3.	4.	5.	c
Is the same key used for both authentication and encryption in WEP:	Yes.	No.	Yes, if 802.1X authentication is not used.	The same key is never used twice.	a
What is an RC4 weak key value:	A key value where many bits of the first bytes of the plaintext are leaked when an IV collision occurs.	A key value where a few bits in the key determine many bits in the first few bytes of the key stream.	A key value where a few bits in the key determine many bits in the cipher text.	A key value where the bits in the key determine the bits in the first few bytes of the key stream.	b
Which cryptographic algoithm is used in counter mode with cipher block chaining message authentication code protocol (CCMP):	AES.	Michael.	RC4.	TLS.	a
Which three roles participate in the 802.1X access control protocol:	Station, authenticator and authentication center.	Client, server and RADIUS server.	Supplocant, access point and RADIUS server.	Supplicant, authenticator and authentication server.	d
How many EAP-TLS messages are exchanged in an EAP-TLS handshake:	2.	4.	9.	It varies with the TLS parameters exchanged.	c
What encapsulates EAP messages in RSN:	They are encapsulated in TCP/IP.	They are encapsulated in EAPOL messages.	They are encapsulated in RADIUS messages.	They are encapsulated in EAPOL and RADIUS messages.	d
Does EAP-SIM provide mutual authentication:	No, it uses the regular GSM authentication.	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and the authentication token from the AuC.	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and a nonce in the encrypted AP response.	Yes it uses the regular UMTS authentication.	c
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake:	To compute a fresh pairwise temporal key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK).	To compute a fresh pairwise master key (PMK) from the pairwise transient key (PTK).	To compute a fresh pairwise transiet key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK) after both parties have verified the PMK.	To compute a fresh pairwise message key (PMK) fron the pairwise trusted key (PTK) generated in the 4-way key agreement.	c
How long is the IV used in TKIP:	24 bits.	48 bits.	64 bits.	128 bits.	b
What is the key size of AES as used in RSN:	128 bits.	192 bits.	256 bits.	512 bits.	a
What is the block size of AES as used in RSN:	64 bits.	128 bits.	256 bits.	512 bits.	b
Is the complete MAC PDU encrypted by the CCMP:	Yes, the CCMP uses a shared key.	No, the MAC header is encrypted.	No, the CCMP header is not encrypted.	No, the MAC header and the CCMP header are not encrypted.	d
Which GSM entities store the secret user keys Ki:	MS and HLR.	VLR and AuC.	SIM and AuC.	SIM, BS and VLR.	c
What is the output of the GSM authentication function A3:	MAC (32-bit message authentication code).	MAC (64-bit message authentication code).	SRES (32-bit signet response).	SRES (64-bit signed response).	c
Which authentication data does the GSM VLR have to request:	The authentication quintet (RAND, AUTN, XRES, CK, IK).	The authentication quintet (RAND, AUTN, XRES, Ki, Kc).	The authentication triplet (RAND, XRES, Ki).	The authentication triplet (RAND, XRES, Kc).	d
What are the variables of the authentication token (AUTN) used in UMTS networks:	SQN XOR AK, XRES, MAC.	SQN XOR AK, AMF, MAC.	SQN, AMF, MAC, RAND.	SQN XOR AK, AMF, MAC, RAND.	b
Which UTRAN layer provides integrity protection:	MAC layer.	RLC layer.	RRC layer.	Physical layer.	c
What happens if the result of the UTRAN algorithm negotiation is that the user equipment (UE) and network have no integrity protection algorithems in common:	The network may establish the connection without integrity protection.	The connection is shut down immediately by the network.	The network may establish the connection with the default integrity protection algorithm.	UTRAN does not use integrity algorithm negotiation.	b
How is the traffic between the terminal equipment and Proxy CSCF (P-CSCF) protected in IMS:	Using the UMTS f8 encryption algorithm with the cipher key CK.	Using IPsec Authentication Header (AH).	Using IPsec Encapsulation Security Payload (ESP).	It is not protected at all, but the UTRAN radio link is protected by the UMTS security mechanisms.	c
Which authentication method is used by IMS:	Internet Key Exchange (IKE).	IPsec Authentication Header (AH).	IPsec Encapsulated Security Payload (ESP).	UMTS Authentication and key agreement (AKA).	d
What is the length of the cipher key CK used in UMTS:	56 bits.	64 bits.	128 bits.	256 bits.	c
Which UMTS entities implement the functions f1-f5, f1* and f5*:	USIM, UE and BS.	SGSN and AuC.	USIM and AuC.	USIM, BSC and AuC.	cIs the same key used for both authentication and encryption in WEP?	Yes	No	Yes, if 802.1X authentication is not used	The same key is never used twice	a
How does WEP detect replay?	There is no replay detection	By the intialization vector (IV)	By the integrity check value (ICV)	By the random nonce value (RNV)	a
How long is the IV used in TKIP?	24 bits	48 bits	64 bits	128 bits	b
Which protocol encapsulates the EAP messages transported between the supplicant and authenticator in WPA/RSN?	EAP-TLS	EAPOL	802.11	802.1X	b
What is the purpose of the first phase of PEAP	The supplicant provides the identity to the authentication server	The supplicant and authentication server negotiate the EAP method to be used	The supplicant encrypt and communicate the password to the authenticator	Supplicant establishes an authenticated secrecy channel to the authentication server	d
Which 802.11 frame type is cryptographically protected by the 802.11w standard?	Management frames	Control frames	Data frames	Beacon frames	a
How is the 128 bits start value of the counter for CCMP encryption initialized in RSN?	By a random IV	By the concatenation of IV ad the extended IV	By the concatenation of flag/priority bits, packetnumber, source-address, and a constant	By source address, desination address and the MIC value of the MPDU	c
What is the key size of AES as used in RSN?	128 bits	192 bits	256 bits	512 bits	a
Does EAP-SIM provide mutual authentication?	No, it uses the regular GSM authentication	Yes, it uses the regular UMTS authentication	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and the authentication token from the AuC	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and nonce in the encrypted AP response	d
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake?	To exchange a fresh pairwise temporal key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK)	To exchange a fresh pairwise message key (PMK) from the pairwise transient key (PTK)	To exchange a fresh pairwise transient key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK) with bilateral key agreement and group key transfer	To exchange a fresh pairwise message key (PMK) from the pairwise trusted key (PTK) generated in the 4-way key agreement including group key distribution	c
What are the four types of EAPL messages used in WPA/RSN?	Start, Key, Packet, Logoff	Request, Authenticate, Result, Stop	Identity, Challenge, Response, Accept	Logon, Name, Password, Logoff	a
What is the purpose of the sequence number (SQN) used in 3G/UMTS networks?	The USIM can detect replay of authentication messages	The VLR/SGSN can detect replay of authentication messages	The UE can verify the MAC values by using f1	The HLR/AuC can generate distinct session keys	a
List the message authentication code types used in UMTS	MIC, MAC	MAC-A, MAC-I, MAC-S	IK, AK	AUTN, AUTS	b
What are the three most important security services in GSM?	User authentication, radio channel confidentiality, and temporary identities	Subscriber Identity Module, Visiting Location Register, and Authentication Centre	User identification, end-to-end encryption, and symetric key exchange	The cryptographic algorithms A3, A5 and A8	a
What are the variables of the authentication token (AUTN) used in UMTS networks?	SQN xor AK, XRES, MAC	SQN xor AK, AMF, MAC	SQN, AMF, MAC, RAND	SQN xor AK, AMF, MAC, RAND	b
Which UTRAN layers provide encryption?	MAC layer and RRC layer	RLC layer and RRC layer	PHY layer and MAC layer	MAC layer and RLC layer	d
Which UTRAN layer provides integrity protection?	MAC layer	RLC layer	RRC layer	PHY layer	c
What is a call session control function (CSCF)?	A SIP server or proxy used in IMS	A Mobile Switching Centre (MSC) with IMS support	A GPRS Support Node (GSN) with IMS support	A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) session controller used in IMS	a
What is the length of the cipher key CK used in UMTS?	56 bits	64 bits	128 bits	256 bits	c
How many rounds does the KASUMI cipher use?	8	10	12	16	a
What kind of ciper is KASUMI?	Stream cipher	Feistel cipher	Substitution-permutation cipher	Nonlinear feedback shiftregister cipher	b
Why is the UICC normally easily removable from the mobile station?	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	End-to-end UMTS key-card plugs into the USIM slot for key-distribution and management	The UE manufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	d
Why must the USIM implementation be tamper-proof?	To facilitate the mobile operator with secure computation and stroage at the UE side	To protect the proprietary crypto-algorithms of the mobile operator	To protect the subscriber against unauthorized modification of the subscription parameters	To provide the subscriber with a PIN-protected access to the UMTS service	a
How is a oneway hash function useful in digital forensic investigations?	For fast recognition of known file content	For reconstructing the hash tables of deleted files	For juridical determination of incriminating file content	For legally sound presentation of the digital evidence	a
What are the purpose of the MILENAGE functions in UMTS	Block cipher family of functions that build the algorithms for integrity code and the encryption process	Transformation of keys for the inter-operation of GSM and UMTS basestations and networks	Pseudorandom generators that output the initializing values for the cryptographic computations	Algorithms for computing the cryptograohic variables needed in the mutual authentication protocols	dIs the same key used for both authentication and encryption in WEP?	Yes, if 802.1X authentication is not used	The same key is never used twice	No	Yes	d
What is the major weakness in WEP, exploited by the PTW attack used in the lab?	Too short IV	No protection against message replay	The integrity check value	The IV is part of key stream	b
What is EAP?	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for mutual authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for smartcartd-based authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for upper-layer authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of authentication server methods	c
How are EAP messages transported between the authenticator and the authentication server in RSN?	EAP messages are encapsulated in TCP/IP	EAP messages are encapsulated in EAP-TLS	EAP messages are encapsulated in VPN	EAP messages are encapsulated in 802.1X	a
Which security method is used in the first phase of PEAP?	TLS	EAPOL	802.1X	LEAP	a
The Pairwise Transient Key (PTK) is a collection of several keys. List these keys and their length when CCMP is used.	EAPOL MIC Key (128), EAPOL Encr Key (128), Data Encr Key (128), Data MIC Key (128)	EAPOL MIC Key (128), EAPOL Encr Key (128) Data Encr/MIC Key (128)	EAPOL MIC Key (128), EAPOL Encr Key (256), Data Encr Key (128), Data MIC Key (128)	EAPOL MIC Key (128), EAPOL Encr Key (128), Data Encr/MIC Key (256)	b
What is Michael in WPA/RSN?	The encryption algorithm in TKIP	The key mixin algorithm of RC4	The message integrity code of TKIP	the replay protection algorithm of TKIP	c
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake?	To compute a fresh pairwise temporal key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK)	To compute a fresh pairwise master key (PMK) from the pairwise transient key (PTK)	To compute a fresh pairwise transient key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK) after both parties have verified the PMK	To compute a fresh pairwise message key (PMK) from the pairwise trusted key (PTK) generated in the 4-way key agreement	c
How does the counter mode operation of a block cipher E() work?	C = E(i) xor i	C = E(i) xor M xor i	C_i = E(i) xor M_i	C = E(i) xor M	c
How is the IEEE 802.11 CCMP nonce input constructed?	The values of the Pairwise Transient Key, the NonceA and the NonceB	the Values of the Pairwise Temporal Key, the Source Address and the Destination Address	The values of the fields Packet Number, Address1, Flag of the MPDU	The values of the fields Packet Number, Address2, Priority of the MPDU	d
Does GSM provide mutual authentication?	No	Yes	Operator dependent	In cooperation with UMTS	a
How is the subscriber identity protected from radio channel eavesdropping in GSM?	By the network providing temporary subscriber identities to the SIMs	by storing the subscriber identity in the SIM only	By storing the 128-bit secret key (K_IMSI) in the SIM and distributed only to trusted VLRs	By using IMEI instead of the IMSI	a
Which information is sent from the AuC to the VLR/SGSN during 3G/UMTS authentication?	IMSI	RAND, AUTN, XRES, CK, IK	RAND, AUTN	RAND, AUTN, XRES, Kc	b
Which UTRAN layers provide encryption?	MAC layer and RRC layer	RLC layer and RRC layer	PHY layer and MAC layer	MAC layer and RLC layer	d
What happens if the result of the UTRAN algorithm negotiation is that the user equipment (UE) and the network do not have a common encryption algorithm?	UTRAN provides a new encryption algorithm as an app	The connection is dhut down immediately by UTRAN	UTRAN may establish the connection without encryption	UTRAN does not use encryption algorithm negotiation	c
Can the security header in MAPsec be encrypted? Why/why not?	No, because the header consists of {SPI || Original Component ID || TVP}	Yes, because the header consists of {SPI || Original Component ID || TVP}	No, because the MAPsec header must be processed at the receiving end	Yes, because an IPsec tunnel is set up	c
Which CSCF handles SIP registration requests and informs the Home Subscription Server (HSS)?	All	P-CSCF	I-CSCF	S-CSCF	d
Which three modes does the confidentiality algorithm in UMTS support?	RLC-Transparent, RLC-Unacknowledged, RLC-Acknowledged	RRC-Transparent, RRC-Unacknowledged, RRC-Acknowledged	RLC-Transparent, RRC-Unacknowledged, RLC-Acknowledged	RRC-Transparent, RLC-Unacknowledged, RRC-Acknowledged	a
In which mode of operation is KASUMI used for constructing the 3GPP f8 key stream generator?	Combining Counter-mode and ECB-mode	Comining Counter-mode and CCM-mode	Combining Counter mode and OFB-mode	Combining Counter-mode and CBC-mode	c
What are the three functional requirements for UMTS authentication?	Mutual authentication between USIM and HSS, securing the radio channel communication, and end-to-end confidentiality	Mutual authentication betweeen USIM and AuC, securing the radio channel communication, and user identity confidentiality	Confidentiality and privacy for the subscriber, and mutual authentication for the service provider	AV generation at AuC, key transport to the RNC, and the SQN synchronization	b
What was the underlying assupmtion for the MILENAGE security analysis?	No assumptions were made	The kernel funjction must be a robust block cipher	AES must be used as the kernel function	The kernel function must be a oneway function	b
Which part of the IEEE 802.16 MAV PDU is encrypted?	Bothe the header and the payload part	The pyload part and some fields of the header	The payload part	The header part	c
Which WiMAX entityis generation the Traffic Encryption Key (TEK)?	The Base Station	The AAA Server	The Access Service Network	The Network Service Provider	a
Why can the USIM be removed from the rest of the UE?	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	The UEmanufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	End-to-end UMTS key-card plugs into the USIM slot for key distribution and management	c
What is Internet Key Exchange (IKE)?	The security association set up protocol in the IPsec protocol suite	The key exchange subprtocol fo the Transport Layer Security protocol	The key transformation protocol for the inter-operation of GSM and UMTS	The security association center in the IMS system	aWhat is the major weakness in WEP, exploited bby the PTW attack used in the lab?:	The initialization vector is too short.	The integrity check value is too short.	The IV is part of key stream.	No protection against message replay
What is the length of the WEP initialization vector (IV)?:	32 bits.	48 bits.	64 bits.	24 bits
How are EAP messages transported between authenticator and the authentication server in RSN?:	EAP messages are encapsulated in EP-TLS.	EAP messages are encapsulated in VPN.	EAP messages are encapsulated in 802.1X.	EAP messages are encapsulated in TCP/IP
Which cryptographic algorithm is used in counter mode with cipher block chaining message authentication code protocol in CCMP?:	Michael.	RC4.	KASUMI.	AES
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake?:	To compute a fresh pairwise temporal key (PTK) from the pairwise message key (PMK).	To compute a fresh pairwise master key (PMK) from the pairwise transient key (PTK).	To comoute a fresh pairwise message key (PMK)from the pairwise trusted key (PTK) generated int the 4-way key agreement.	To compute a fresh pairwise transient key (PTK) from the pairwie master key (PMK) after both parties have verified the PMK
How does the counter mode operation of a block ciper E() work?:	C = E(i) xor i.	C = E(i) xor M xor i.	C = E(i) xor M.	Ci = E(i) xor Mi
Is the complete MAC PDU encrypted by the CCMP?:	Yes, the CCMP uses a shared key.	Yes, the CCMP header is encrypted.	No, the MAC header is not encrypted.	No, the MAC header and the CCMP header are not encrypted
Which block cipher mode of operation is used for AES in RSN?:	Counter Mode with Galois Message Authentication Code.	Cipher Bloch Chaining with Counter Mode Message Authentication Code.	Cipher Block Chaining with Hashed Message Authenticatio Code.	Counter Mode with Cipher Block Chaiing Message Authentications Code
How is the 128 bits start value of the counter for CCMP encryption initialized in RSN?:	By the random IV.	By the concatenation of of IV and the extended IV.	By source address, destination address, and the MIC value of the MPDU.	By flag/prority bits, packetnumber, souce-address, and a constant
Which 802.11 frame is cryptographically protected by the 802.11w standard?:	Data frames.	Control frames.	Beacon frames.	Management frames
How is the subscriber identity protected from the radio channel evesdropping in UTMS?:	By keeping the subscriber identity in the USIM only.	By stroing the 128-bit secret key (K_imsi) in the USIM, and distribute only to trusted VLRs.	By using the IEMI instead of the IMSI.	Bythe network providing temporary subscriber identities to the USIMs
Which information is sent from the HSS to the MME during the LTE/EPS authentication protocol?:	IMSI, RAND, AUTN, XRES.	RAND, AUTN XRES, CK, IK.	RAND, AUTN, XRES, K_c.	RAND, AUTN, XRES, K_ASME
Which UTRAN protocol layees provide encryption?:	MAC layer and RRC layer.	RLC layer and RCC layer.	PHY layer and MAC layer.	MAC layer and RLC layer
What happens if the result of the UTRAN cryptoalgorithm negotiation is that user equpment (UE) and the network do not have a common encryption algorithm?: UTRAN provides a new encryption algorithm as an app download.	The connection is shut downn immediately by UTRAN.	UTRAN does not use encryption algorithm negotiation.	UTRAN may establish the connection without encryption
In which mode oof operation is KASUMI used for constructing the 3GPP f8 key stream generator?:	Combining Counter Mode and ECB-mode.	Combining Counter Mode and CCM-mode.	Combining Counter Mode and CBC-mode.	Combining Counter Mode and OFB-mode
WHat was the underlying assumtion for the MILENAGE security analysis?:	No assumtions were made.	AES must be used as the kernel function.	The kernel function must be a one-way function.	The kernel function must be a secure block cipher
Why can the USIM be physically removed from the rest of the UE?:	The failiure rate of the integrated of the integrated curcuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to reduce the cost for short subscription duration.	End-to-end YTMS key-card may be plugged into the USIM slot for the key distribution and management.	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced.	The UC manufacturing and lifecycle can be  managed independantly from the personalization and subscription process
What is the bit length of the permanent subscriber key in UTMS?: 56.	64.	256.	128
Theend points of the user data encryption in EPS are:	The UICC and the eNB.	The UE and the MME.	The UICCand the MME.	The UE and the eNB
The end points of a signal-message encryption in the EPS access stratum are:	The UICC and the eNB.	The UE and the eNB.	The eNB and the MME.	The UE and the MME
Does LTE/EPS provide end-to-end data security?:	Yes, but only authenticity.	Yes, but only anonymity.	Yes, both confidentiality and authenticity.	No
Can 3G USIM work in an LTE UE handset?:	No, beacause the cryptkeys must be kept in the USIM.	No, because the cryptkeys are not compatible.	Yes, because the crytpkeys are the same in both systems.	Yes, because the USIM cryptkey output is the same in the to systems
Where does the key derivation function KDF of EPS reside?:	In the USIM and the AuC.	Inn the USIM and the UE.	In the UE and the MME.	In the UE and the HSS
What is lawfull interception in mobile communication networks?:	Eavsdropping performed on behalf of the police authorities.	Siganl jamming by the police authorities.	Law enforcement cammand to the mobil operators to turn off the communication encryption in order to enable eavsdropping.	Eavsdroppinf approved by judicial courtWhat is the length of the WEP initialization vector (IV):	24 bits.	32 bits.	48 bits.	46 bits.	a
How does the integrity check value (ICV) in WEP protect against message modification attack:	The ICV in WEP protects against message modification due to the integrity key	The ICV in WEP protects against message modification by the error-detection property	The ICV in WEP does not protect against message modification by an attacker	The ICV in WEP protects against message modification by the challenge value	c
What is "Michael" in RSN:	Michael is the 32 bits sequence counter scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 64 bits block encryption scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 20 bits replay protection scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 64 bits message authentication code used in TKIP	d
What are the consequences of the Beck and Tews chopchop-like attack on TKIP:	An attacker can avoid the re-keying interval of the MIC failure report frame.	An attacker can decrypt traffic and send packets with custom content.	An attacker can cause packets to be silently dropped.	An attacker can send packets with custom content over QoS channels.	b
What is the 128-bit start value for RSN CCMP encryption:	8-bit flag, 104-bit nounce, 16-bit counter; where the nonce created 8-bit priority, 48-bit source address, 48-bit packet number.	128-bit fresh nonce.	16-bit flag, 104 bit nounce, 8-bit counter; where the nonce created 8-bit priority, 48-bit source address and 48-bit packet number.	16-bit packet number. 112-bit nounce.	a
What is a mutable field in RSN CCMP:	A header field that is modified in transmission to ease decryption operation.	A header field that may be modified in transmission.	An integrity protected header field that may be modified prior to transmission.	An encrypted header field that may be updated prior to transmission.	b
What is Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP):	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for mutual authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for upper-layer authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RSN authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RADIUS server authentication methods.	b
The TKIP Pairwise Transient Key is a collection of several keys.	Pairwise Master Encryption Key (256 bits), Pairwise Master Data Integrity Key (128 bits), EAPOL-Key Encryption Key (64-bits), EAPOL-Key Integrity Key (64-bits).	Pairwise Master Encryption Key (256 bits), Pairwise Master Data Integrity Key (256 bits), EAPOL-Key Encryption Key (64 bits), EAPOL-Key Integrity Key (64 bits).	Data Encryption Key (128 bits), Data Integrity Key (128 bits), EAPOL Pairwise Master Encryption Key (256 bits), EAPOL Pairwise Master Integrity Key (256 bits).	Data Encryption Key (128 bits), Data Integrity Key (128 bits), EAPOL-Key Encryption Key (128 bits), EAPOL-Key Integrity Key (128 bits).	d
What are the inputs of the GSM authentication function A3:	Ki and RAND and XRES	RAND and XRES	Ki and XRES	Ki and RAND	d
How is the subscriber identity protected from radio channel eavesdropping in GSM:	By a temporary subscriber identity	By the subscriber key encryption	By the tamper-resistant SIM card	The subscriber identity is not protected in GSN, only in UMTS and LTE	a
What is the purpose of the sequence number (SQN) used in UMTS:	Preventing replay attacks	Preventing man-in-the-middle attacks	Preventing session hijacking	Enabiling re-synchronization	a
Is mutual authentication provided when a GSM SIM is used to access a UTRAN:	Yes, between the MS and the RNC.	Yes, between the MS and the core network, but not the RNC.	No, the GSM SIM cannot authenticate the base station.	No, the GSM SIM cannot connect to a UTRAN.	b
What is the content and use of the UMTS AUTS parameters:	SQN xor AK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the network side.	SQN xor CK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the network side.	SQN xor AK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the MS side.	SQN xor CK, MAC-s. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the MS side.	c
What are the purposes of the UMTS MILENAGE functions:	Message encryption and authentication.	Message encryption and session key generation.	Message and user authentication/confirmation, and session key generation.	Message authentication and session key generation.	c
What is the output of the UMTS f9 algorithm:	It is a 32-bit MAC.	It is an indefinite length keystream.	It is a 64-bit block ciphertext.	It is a 32-bit authenticated ciphertext.	a
What are the consequences of the Zhang and Fang redirection attack against UMTS authentication:	Because serving networks are not authenticated in UMTS, and attacker can redirect traffic via servers abroad, causing roaming fees.	Because serving networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can learn the session keys.	Because core networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can redirect the traffic to an authentication center abroad, causing roaming fees.	Because core networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can learn the session keys.	a
Is the UMTS/LTE network domain security specifications for the core network sufficient to protect the authentication and key agreement messages against parallel session attacks:	No, the network domain does not necessarily protect the session identifier, but this cannot be exploited by an attacker.	No, the network domain security does not neccessarily protect the session identifier and may allow session-mixup attacks.	Yes, the network domain specification demands the use if IPsec of MAPsec, and therefore the core network communication is protected.	Yes, but the core network communication is always assumed to be secure, independent of the network domain security specifications.	b
How is forward key separation achieved during handovers over X2 connections in EPS:	The target eNB gets a fresh key from MME immediately after handover.	The target eNB gets a fresh key from MME right before handover.	The source eNB proides a key KeNB to the target eNB by applying a one-way function to the old key.	Forward key separation is not achieved only backward key separation.	a
Which attacks are prevented if an RFID reader authenticates to a tag:	For instance, tracking of the tag.	For instance, distance measuring and tag blocking.	For instance, tag inbentory registration.	For instance, illicit reading, cloning and reprogramming of the tag	d
How does the anti-counterfeiting measure "track and trace" for low cost RFID tags work:	By reading tags regularly with centralized storage for date and location, then a tag is "genuine" if it has a valid item history.	By using a challenge and response protocol, where the tag must answer challenge by the reader.	By using a privacy-preserving identification protocol.	By observing the unique communication fingerprint of a tag.	a
What are the general steps performed by intrusion detection systems for mobile ad-hoc networks:	Data Collection and Retaliation.	Data Collection, Detection, and Response.	Node Detection, Obstruction, and Response.	Node Detection, Rendering, and Alarm.	b
What is the vulnerability of captive pages	The weak encryption can easily be broken	There is encryption but no integrity protection.	There is integrity protection but no encryption.	Session can be hijacked.	d
What is the problem with MAC Sequence Number Analysis in Intrusion Detection Systems:	The MAC Sequence Number Analysis does not work at all because the sequence numbers are not integrity protected.	The MAC Sequence Numbers only protect against message replay attacks, but not against session hijacking.	Each class in QoS (WMM) has its own sequence number. Also an attacker can still hijack a session when the victim goes offline.	Implementatinos very often use a constant value as MAC Sequence Number, and, therefore, this does not even protect against replay attacks.	c
What is the difference between a checksum code and a chryptographic message authentication code:	There is no difference, they are only different terms for the same primitive.	A message authentication code can be used to construct a checksum, but not the other way around.	A checksum can be (re-)computed by an attacker, the authentication code cannot.	A keyed checksum provides stronger message integrity protection than a message authentication code.	c
Why is it not sufficient to construct a one-way function y = f(x) based on an NP-hard problem:	The one-way property requires that the problem is NP-complete and not just NP-hard.	NP-hardness guarantees only that there exists a y for which x is hard to compute.	A one-way function must satisfy the property of collision-resistance too.	Computing a preimage must be hard in the worst case.	bWhich one of the following security goals were present for the WEP design:	To be equivalent to the Kerberos access policy.	To be equivalent to wired access point security.	To be equivalent to wide ethernet protocol.	To be equivalent to wireless entity policy.	b
Which key distribution protocol is specified in WEP?	Diffie-Hellman key distribution.	RC4 key distribution.	RSA key distribution.	There is no specified key distribution protocol in WEP.	d
What is the major weakness in WEP, exploited by the PTW attack used in the lab?	RC4 is broken even with 104 bit keys	The initialization vector is too short	No protection against message replay	The integrity check value is too short	c
WPA and WPA2 share the following security component:	CCMP	TKIP	AES	RC4	b
How many message integrity failures have to be logged in order the Temporal Key integrity Protocol to start the Denial Of Service mechanism:	Two failures within 60 seconds	Two failures within 30 seconds	Two failures within 10 seconds	Two failures within 1 second	a
In RSN,the encryption and message authentication are realized via	AES-GCM	AES-CBC	AES-HMAC	AES-CCMP	d
How big is the message integrity code in RSN	32 bits	48 bits	64 bits	128 bits	c
What is Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)?	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for upper-layer authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for physical layer authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for PKI authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RADIUS server authentication methods	a
In GSM, what is the role of the Visitor Location Register:	When mobile equipment register to the network, to retrieve the information for that equipment from HLR.	To protect the anonymity of the owner of the mobile equipment.	To obtain a session key from HLR.	To communicate the user's Authentication Center (AuC).	a
Which security mechanism is NOT present in GSM:	Authentication	Confidentiality	Anonymity	Authorization	d
In GSM, what is the role of A8 algorithm:	For production of random numbers	For encryption key generation	For user authentication	For Data encryption	b
The function f6( ) in the MAPsec protocol of UMTS is:	AES in counter mode	AES in CBC mode	KASUMI in counter mode	KASUMI in CBC mode	a
How many modes of protection offers MAPsec?	1	2	3	4	c
What is the crucial protocol in IP Multimedia Subsystem?	Internet Key Exchange (IKE)	MAPsec	Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)	IPsec	c
A simple description of MILENAGE functions can be done as:	fi,K(x) = EK( EK(x xor ci) ); where i = 1,2,3,4,5, and ci are distinct constants	fi,K(x) = EK( EK(x) xor ci); where i = 1,2,3,4,5, and ci are distinct constants	fi,K(x) = EK( EK(ci) xor x); where i = 1,2,3,4,5, and ci are distinct constants	fi,K(x) = EK( EK(x) ) xor ci ; where i = 1,2,3,4,5, and ci are distinct constants	b
Which two ciphers are used in UEA1 and UEA2?	AES and KASUMI	AES and RC4	AES and SNOW 3G	KASUMI and SNOW 3G	d
In UMTS, the function f9( ) is used for:	Integrity key generation	Integrity protection	Encryption key generation	Encryption	b
Where is encryption located in the UMTS stack of protocols?	In Physical Layer and Media Access Control Layer	In Media Access Control Layer and Radio Link Control Layer	In Radio Link Control Layer and Radio Resource Control Protocol	In Radio Resource Control Protocol and Higher Layers	b
In UMTS, the security mechanisms employed between the Mobile Station and the Radio Network Controller are responsible for:	Sequence Number Management	Encryption and Integrity Protection	User Authentication	Network Authentication	b
In LTE, the Home Subscriber Server has the following information:	policy control and decision-making rules	IP address allocation for the UE	buffer of downlink data while the MME paging	information about the PDNs	d
In LTE, E-UTRAN is the part of the whole system infrastructure responsible for the:	radio access network	circuit switch core network	packet switch core network	evolved packet core network	a
How many security levels has LTE?	5	4	3	2	a
The following component IS NOT a part of the RFID technology	Transceiver-Tag Reader	Transponder-RFID tag	Antenna	Infra Red Analog/Digital Converter	d
The EPCGen2 tag is	A passive tag that allows just low-speed reading and sortation	An Active tag that allows high-speed reading and sortation	A passive tag that allows high-speed reading and sortation	An Active tag that allows just low- speed reading and sortation	c
In RFID, the usual budget for implementation of the cryptographic primitives is:	100-200 gates	200-500 gates	500-1000 gates	200-2000 gates	dWhat is the length of the WEP initialization vector (IV)	24 bits	32 bits	48 bits	64 bits	a
What is the main trick of the Beck & Tews chopchop like attack on TKIP	An attacker can avoid the re keying interval of the MIC failure report frame	An attacker can get responses to packets sent with partly guessed content	An attacker can cause packets to be silently dropped	An attacker can decrypt the special packets received over QoS channels	b
What are the fields of the 128 bit start value for RSN CCMP encryption	8 bit flag 104 bit nonce and a 16 bit counter where the nonce field contains an 8 bit priority value the 48 bit source address and the 48 bit packet number	16 bit flag 104 bit nonce and a 8 bit counter where the nonce field contains an 8 bit priority value the 48 bit source address and the 48 bit packet number	The 16 bit packet number and a 112 bit nonce value from a sequence counter	128 bit random nonce value	a
What is Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for mutual authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for upper layer authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RSN authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RADIUS server authentication methods	b
What are the inputs of the GSM authentication function A3	Ki and RAND and XRES	RAND and XRES	Ki and XRES	Ki and RAND	d
What is the purpose of the sequence number (SQN) used in UMTS	Preventing man in the middle attacks	Preventing session hijacking	Preventing replay attacks	Enabling re synchronization	c
Is mutual authentication provided when a GSM SIM is used to access a UTRAN	Yes between the MS and the RNC	Yes between the MS and the core network but not the RNC	No the GSM SIM cannot authenticate the base station	No the GSM SIM cannot connect to a UTRAN	c
What is the content and use of the UMTS AUTS parameter	SQN AK MAC S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the network side	SQN CK MAC S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the network side	SQN AK MAC S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the MS side	SQN CK MAC S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the MS side	c
How is forward key separation achieved during handovers over X2 connections in EPS	The target eNB receives a fresh key from MME immediately after handover	The target eNB receives a fresh key from MME right before handover	The source eNB sends a derived key to the target eNB by applying a one way function to the current key	Forward key separation cannot be achieved only backward key separation	a
What is the specified length of the permanent subscriber key K in EPS LTE	No standard length specified	128 bits	192 bits	256 bits	a
The end points of user data encryption in EPS are	The UICC and the eNB	The UE and the MME	The UE and the eNB	The UICC and the MME	c
The end points of signalling encryption in the EPS access stratum are	The UICC and the eNB	The UE and the eNB	The eNB and the MME	The UE and the MME	b
The end points of signalling integrity in the EPS non stratum access are	The UICC and the eNB	The UE and the eNB	The eNB and the MME	The UE and the MME	d
Does EPS provide end to end data security	No	Yes but only authenticity	Yes but only anonymity	Yes both confidentiality and authenticity	a
What is the telecom practice of lawful interception	Dragnet surveillance secretly performed by an authorized intelligence agency	Legal deep packet inspection and filtering of mobile systems traffic	Eavesdropping of private communication performed by the police	Wiretapping of private communication requested by a law enforcement agency	d
Can UMTS USIMs work in an LTE UE device	Yes because the key hierarchy is designed for this	Yes because the cryptographic keys are the same	No because the cryptographic keys must remain in the USIM	No because the LSIM and USIM are not compatible	b
Where does the key derivation function KDF of EPS reside	In the UICC and the HSS	In the UICC and the UE	In the UE and the MME	In the UE and the AuC	a
What are the three functional requirements for UMTS authentication	Confidentiality and privacy for the subscriber and mutual authentication for the service provider	AV generation at AuC key transport to the RNC and the SQN synchronization	Mutual authentication between USIM and HSS securing the radio channel communication and end to end confidentiality	Mutual authentication between USIM and AuC securing the radio channel communication and user identity confidentiality	d
Why can the UICC be physically separated from the rest of the UE device	The UE manufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	The UICC holds an expiration date and like credit cards must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers(mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	The manufacturer plugs a special key card into the UICC interface slot for key distribution and software management	a
What is the difference between a checksum code and a cryptographic message authentication code	There is no difference  they are only different terms for the same primitive	A message authentication code can be used to construct a checksum code but not the other way around	A checksum can be (re )computed by an attacker the authentication code cannot	A keyed checksum provides stronger message integrity protection than a message authentication code	c
What cipher mode of operation is specified in the Bluetooth Low Energy standard	CCMP	CBC	E0	BLE	a
What is ciphertext padding	Methods of adding false bits to a ciphertext packet	Methods of making fixed length ciphertext packets	Methods of cryptanalysis using weak crypto keys	Methods of cryptanalysis using paper pads	b
Are the GPS satellite signals protected cryptographically	No protection because GPS receivers are keyless	Partly the military spread spectrum code is encrypted	By the distinct satellite signal authentication codes	By a public key satellite identity authentication code	b
Which attack is prevented if an RFID tag can authenticate the reader	Tracking of the tag locations	Tag blocking	Tag inventory registration	Illicit reading of the tag information	d
What is an RFID tree walking singulation protocol	A privacy preserving identification protocol where a tag releases its identity number bit by bit	A disruption protocol by a blocker tag simulating a range of identities	A reader initiated anti collision protocol run when multiple tags respond simultaneously	A reader monitoring protocol for discovering a given tag identity	c