Is the same key used for both authentication and encryption in WEP?	Yes, if 802.1X authentication is not used	The same key is never used twice	No 	Yes	d
What is the major weakness in WEP, exploited by the PTW attack used in the lab?	Too short IV	No protection against message replay	The integrity check value	The IV is part of key stream	b
What is EAP?	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for mutual authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for smartcartd-based authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for upper-layer authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of authentication server methods	c
How are EAP messages transported between the authenticator and the authentication server in RSN?	EAP messages are encapsulated in TCP/IP	EAP messages are encapsulated in EAP-TLS	EAP messages are encapsulated in VPN	EAP messages are encapsulated in 802.1X	a
Which security method is used in the first phase of PEAP?	TLS	EAPOL	802.1X	LEAP	a
The Pairwise Transient Key (PTK) is a collection of several keys. List these keys and their length when CCMP is used.	EAPOL MIC Key (128), EAPOL Encr Key (128), Data Encr Key (128), Data MIC Key (128)	EAPOL MIC Key (128), EAPOL Encr Key (128) Data Encr/MIC Key (128)	EAPOL MIC Key (128), EAPOL Encr Key (256), Data Encr Key (128), Data MIC Key (128)	EAPOL MIC Key (128), EAPOL Encr Key (128), Data Encr/MIC Key (256)	b
What is Michael in WPA/RSN?	The encryption algorithm in TKIP	The key mixin algorithm of RC4	The message integrity code of TKIP	the replay protection algorithm of TKIP	c
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake?	To compute a fresh pairwise temporal key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK)	To compute a fresh pairwise master key (PMK) from the pairwise transient key (PTK)	To compute a fresh pairwise transient key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK) after both parties have verified the PMK	To compute a fresh pairwise message key (PMK) from the pairwise trusted key (PTK) generated in the 4-way key agreement	c
How does the counter mode operation of a block cipher E() work?	C = E(i) xor i	C = E(i) xor M xor i	C_i = E(i) xor M_i	C = E(i) xor M	c
How is the IEEE 802.11 CCMP nonce input constructed?	The values of the Pairwise Transient Key, the NonceA and the NonceB	the Values of the Pairwise Temporal Key, the Source Address and the Destination Address	The values of the fields Packet Number, Address1, Flag of the MPDU	The values of the fields Packet Number, Address2, Priority of the MPDU	d
Does GSM provide mutual authentication?	No	Yes	Operator dependent	In cooperation with UMTS	a
How is the subscriber identity protected from radio channel eavesdropping in GSM?	By the network providing temporary subscriber identities to the SIMs	by storing the subscriber identity in the SIM only	By storing the 128-bit secret key (K_IMSI) in the SIM and distributed only to trusted VLRs	By using IMEI instead of the IMSI	a
Which information is sent from the AuC to the VLR/SGSN during 3G/UMTS authentication?	IMSI	RAND, AUTN, XRES, CK, IK	RAND, AUTN	RAND, AUTN, XRES, Kc	b
Which UTRAN layers provide encryption?	MAC layer and RRC layer	RLC layer and RRC layer	PHY layer and MAC layer	MAC layer and RLC layer	d
What happens if the result of the UTRAN algorithm negotiation is that the user equipment (UE) and the network do not have a common encryption algorithm?	UTRAN provides a new encryption algorithm as an app	The connection is dhut down immediately by UTRAN	UTRAN may establish the connection without encryption	UTRAN does not use encryption algorithm negotiation	c
Can the security header in MAPsec be encrypted? Why/why not?	No, because the header consists of {SPI || Original Component ID || TVP}	Yes, because the header consists of {SPI || Original Component ID || TVP}	No, because the MAPsec header must be processed at the receiving end	Yes, because an IPsec tunnel is set up	c
Which CSCF handles SIP registration requests and informs the Home Subscription Server (HSS)?	All	P-CSCF	I-CSCF	S-CSCF	d
Which three modes does the confidentiality algorithm in UMTS support?	RLC-Transparent, RLC-Unacknowledged, RLC-Acknowledged	RRC-Transparent, RRC-Unacknowledged, RRC-Acknowledged	RLC-Transparent, RRC-Unacknowledged, RLC-Acknowledged	RRC-Transparent, RLC-Unacknowledged, RRC-Acknowledged	a
In which mode of operation is KASUMI used for constructing the 3GPP f8 key stream generator?	Combining Counter-mode and ECB-mode	Comining Counter-mode and CCM-mode	Combining Counter mode and OFB-mode	Combining Counter-mode and CBC-mode	c
What are the three functional requirements for UMTS authentication?	Mutual authentication between USIM and HSS, securing the radio channel communication, and end-to-end confidentiality	Mutual authentication betweeen USIM and AuC, securing the radio channel communication, and user identity confidentiality	Confidentiality and privacy for the subscriber, and mutual authentication for the service provider	AV generation at AuC, key transport to the RNC, and the SQN synchronization	b
What was the underlying assupmtion for the MILENAGE security analysis?	No assumptions were made	The kernel funjction must be a robust block cipher	AES must be used as the kernel function	The kernel function must be a oneway function	b
Which part of the IEEE 802.16 MAV PDU is encrypted?	Bothe the header and the payload part	The pyload part and some fields of the header	The payload part	The header part	c
Which WiMAX entityis generation the Traffic Encryption Key (TEK)?	The Base Station	The AAA Server	The Access Service Network	The Network Service Provider	a
Why can the USIM be removed from the rest of the UE?	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	The UEmanufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	End-to-end UMTS key-card plugs into the USIM slot for key distribution and management	c
What is Internet Key Exchange (IKE)?	The security association set up protocol in the IPsec protocol suite	The key exchange subprtocol fo the Transport Layer Security protocol	The key transformation protocol for the inter-operation of GSM and UMTS	The security association center in the IMS system	a
