What is the length of the WEP initialization vector (IV):	24 bits.	32 bits.	48 bits.	46 bits.	a
How does the integrity check value (ICV) in WEP protect against message modification attack:	The ICV in WEP protects against message modification due to the integrity key.	The ICV in WEP protects against message modification by the error-detection property.	The ICV in WEP does not protect against message modification by an attacker. The ICV in WEP protects against message modification by the challenge value. c
What is "Michael" in RSN:	Michael is the 32 bits sequence counter scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 64 bits block encryption scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 20 bits replay protection scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 64 bits message authentication code used in TKIP.	d
What are the consequences of the Beck and Tews chopchop-like attack on TKIP:	An attacker can avoid the re-keying interval of the MIC failure report frame.	An attacker can decrypt traffic and send packets with custom content.	An attacker can cause packets to be silently dropped.	An attacker can send packets with custom content over QoS channels.	b
What is the 128-bit start value for RSN CCMP encryption:	8-bit flag, 104-bit nounce, 16-bit counter; where the nonce created 8-bit priority, 48-bit source address, 48-bit packet number.	128-bit fresh nonce.	16-bit flag, 104 bit nounce, 8-bit counter; where the nonce created 8-bit priority, 48-bit source address and 48-bit packet number.	16-bit packet number. 112-bit nounce.	a
What is a mutable field in RSN CCMP:	A header field that is modified in transmission to ease decryption operation.	A header field that may be modified in transmission.	An integrity protected header field that may be modified prior to transmission.	An encrypted header field that may be updated prior to transmission.	b
What is Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP):	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for mutual authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for upper-layer authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RSN authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RADIUS server authentication methods.	b
The TKIP Pairwise Transient Key is a collection of several keys.	Pairwise Master Encryption Key (256 bits), Pairwise Master Data Integrity Key (128 bits), EAPOL-Key Encryption Key (64-bits), EAPOL-Key Integrity Key (64-bits).	Pairwise Master Encryption Key (256 bits), Pairwise Master Data Integrity Key (256 bits), EAPOL-Key Encryption Key (64 bits), EAPOL-Key Integrity Key (64 bits).	Data Encryption Key (128 bits), Data Integrity Key (128 bits), EAPOL Pairwise Master Encryption Key (256 bits), EAPOL Pairwise Master Integrity Key (256 bits).	Data Encryption Key (128 bits), Data Integrity Key (128 bits), EAPOL-Key Encryption Key (128 bits), EAPOL-Key Integrity Key (128 bits).	d
What are the inputs of the GSM authentication function A3:	Ki and RAND and XRES	RAND and XRES	Ki and XRES	Ki and RAND	d
How is the subscriber identity protected from radio channel eavesdropping in GSM:	By a temporary subscriber identity	By the subscriber key encryption	By the tamper-resistant SIM card	The subscriber identity is not protected in GSN, only in UMTS and LTE	a
What is the purpose of the sequence number (SQN) used in UMTS:	Preventing replay attacks	Preventing man-in-the-middle attacks	Preventing session hijacking	Enabiling re-synchronization	a
Is mutual authentication provided when a GSM SIM is used to access a UTRAN:	Yes, between the MS and the RNC.	Yes, between the MS and the core network, but not the RNC.	No, the GSM SIM cannot authenticate the base station.	No, the GSM SIM cannot connect to a UTRAN.	b
What is the content and use of the UMTS AUTS parameters:	SQN xor AK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the network side.	SQN xor CK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the network side.	SQN xor AK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the MS side.	SQN xor CK, MAC-s. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the MS side.	c
What are the purposes of the UMTS MILENAGE functions:	Message encryption and authentication.	Message encryption and session key generation.	Message and user authentication/confirmation, and session key generation.	Message authentication and session key generation.	c
What is the output of the UMTS f9 algorithm:	It is a 32-bit MAC.	It is an indefinite length keystream.	It is a 64-bit block ciphertext.	It is a 32-bit authenticated ciphertext.	a
What are the consequences of the Zhang and Fang redirection attack against UMTS authentication:	Because serving networks are not authenticated in UMTS, and attacker can redirect traffic via servers abroad, causing roaming fees.	Because serving networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can learn the session keys.	Because core networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can redirect the traffic to an authentication center abroad, causing roaming fees.	Because core networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can learn the session keys.	a
Is the UMTS/LTE network domain security specifications for the core network sufficient to protect the authentication and key agreement messages against parallel session attacks:	No, the network domain does not necessarily protect the session identifier, but this cannot be exploited by an attacker.	No, the network domain security does not neccessarily protect the session identifier and may allow session-mixup attacks.	Yes, the network domain specification demands the use if IPsec of MAPsec, and therefore the core network communication is protected.	Yes, but the core network communication is always assumed to be secure, independent of the network domain security specifications.	b
How is forward key separation achieved during handovers over X2 connections in EPS:	The target eNB gets a fresh key from MME immediately after handover.	The target eNB gets a fresh key from MME right before handover.	The source eNB proides a key KeNB to the target eNB by applying a one-way function to the old key.	Forward key separation is not achieved only backward key separation.	a
Which attacks are prevented if an RFID reader authenticates to a tag:	For instance, tracking of the tag.	For instance, distance measuring and tag blocking.	For instance, tag inbentory registration.	For instance, illicit reading, cloning and reprogramming of the tag.	d
How does the anti-counterfeiting measure "track and trace" for low cost RFID tags work:	By reading tags regularly with centralized storage for date and location, then a tag is "genuine" if it has a valid item history.	By using a challenge and response protocol, where the tag must answer challenge by the reader.	By using a privacy-preserving identification protocol.	By observing the unique communication fingerprint of a tag.	a
What are the general steps performed by intrusion detection systems for mobile ad-hoc networks:	Data Collection and Retaliation.	Data Collection, Detection, and Response.	Node Detection, Obstruction, and Response.	Node Detection, Rendering, and Alarm.	b
What is the vulnerability of captive pages:	The weak encryption can easily be broken.	There is encryption but no integrity protection.	There is integrity protection but no encryption.	Session can be hijacked.	d
What is the problem with MAC Sequence Number Analysis in Intrusion Detection Systems:	The MAC Sequence Number Analysis does not work at all because the sequence numbers are not integrity protected.	The MAC Sequence Numbers only protect against message replay attacks, but not against session hijacking.	Each class in QoS (WMM) has its own sequence number. Also an attacker can still hijack a session when the victim goes offline.	Implementatinos very often use a constant value as MAC Sequence Number, and, therefore, this does not even protect against replay attacks.	c
What is the difference between a checksum code and a chryptographic message authentication code:	There is no difference, they are only different terms for the same primitive.	A message authentication code can be used to construct a checksum, but not the other way around.	A checksum can be (re-)computed by an attacker, the authentication code cannot.	A keyed checksum provides stronger message integrity protection than a message authentication code.	c
Why is it not sufficient to construct a one-way function y = f(x) based on an NP-hard problem:	The one-way property requires that the problem is NP-complete and not just NP-hard.	NP-hardness guarantees only that there exists a y for which x is hard to compute.	A one-way function must satisfy the property of collision-resistance too.	Computing a preimage must be hard in the worst case.	b