Which one of the following security goals were present for the WEP design:	To be equivalent to the Kerberos access policy.	To be equivalent to wired access point security.	To be equivalent to wide ethernet protocol.	To be equivalent to wireless entity policy.	b
Which key distribution protocol is specified in WEP?	Diffie-Hellman key distribution.	RC4 key distribution.	RSA key distribution.	There is no specified key distribution protocol in WEP.	d
What is the major weakness in WEP, exploited by the PTW attack used in the lab?	RC4 is broken even with 104 bit keys	The initialization vector is too short	No protection against message replay	The integrity check value is too short	c
WPA and WPA2 share the following security component:	CCMP	TKIP	AES	RC4	b
How many message integrity failures have to be logged in order the Temporal Key integrity Protocol to start the Denial Of Service mechanism:	Two failures within 60 seconds	Two failures within 30 seconds	Two failures within 10 seconds	Two failures within 1 second	a
In RSN,the encryption and message authentication are realized via	AES-GCM	AES-CBC	AES-HMAC	AES-CCMP	d
How big is the message integrity code in RSN	32 bits	48 bits	64 bits	128 bits	c
What is Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)?	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for upper-layer authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for physical layer authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for PKI authentication methods	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RADIUS server authentication methods	a
In GSM, what is the role of the Visitor Location Register:	When mobile equipment register to the network, to retrieve the information for that equipment from HLR.	To protect the anonymity of the owner of the mobile equipment.	To obtain a session key from HLR.	To communicate the user’s Authentication Center (AuC).	a
Which security mechanism is NOT present in GSM:	Authentication	Confidentiality	Anonymity	Authorization	d
In GSM, what is the role of A8 algorithm:	For production of random numbers	For encryption key generation	For user authentication	For Data encryption	b
The function f6( ) in the MAPsec protocol of UMTS is:	AES in counter mode	AES in CBC mode	KASUMI in counter mode	KASUMI in CBC mode	a
How many modes of protection offers MAPsec?	1	2	3	4	c
What is the crucial protocol in IP Multimedia Subsystem?	Internet Key Exchange (IKE)	MAPsec	Session Initiation Protocol (SIP)	IPsec	c
A simple description of MILENAGE functions can be done as:	fi,K(x) = EK( EK(x xor ci) ); where i = 1,2,3,4,5, and ci are distinct constants	fi,K(x) = EK( EK(x) xor ci); where i = 1,2,3,4,5, and ci are distinct constants	fi,K(x) = EK( EK(ci) xor x); where i = 1,2,3,4,5, and ci are distinct constants	fi,K(x) = EK( EK(x) ) xor ci ; where i = 1,2,3,4,5, and ci are distinct constants	b
Which two ciphers are used in UEA1 and UEA2?	AES and KASUMI	AES and RC4	AES and SNOW 3G	KASUMI and SNOW 3G	d
In UMTS, the function f9( ) is used for:	Integrity key generation	Integrity protection	Encryption key generation	Encryption	b
Where is encryption located in the UMTS stack of protocols?	In Physical Layer and Media Access Control Layer	In Media Access Control Layer and Radio Link Control Layer	In Radio Link Control Layer and Radio Resource Control Protocol	In Radio Resource Control Protocol and Higher Layers	b
In UMTS, the security mechanisms employed between the Mobile Station and the Radio Network Controller are responsible for:	Sequence Number Management	Encryption and Integrity Protection	User Authentication	Network Authentication	b
In LTE, the Home Subscriber Server has the following information:	policy control and decision-making rules	IP address allocation for the UE	buffer of downlink data while the MME paging	information about the PDNs	d
In LTE, E-UTRAN is the part of the whole system infrastructure responsible for the:	radio access network	circuit switch core network	packet switch core network	evolved packet core network	a
How many security levels has LTE?	5	4	3	2	a
The following component IS NOT a part of the RFID technology	Transceiver-Tag Reader	Transponder-RFID tag	Antenna	Infra Red Analog/Digital Converter	d
The EPCGen2 tag is	A passive tag that allows just low-speed reading and sortation	An Active tag that allows high-speed reading and sortation	A passive tag that allows high-speed reading and sortation	An Active tag that allows just low- speed reading and sortation	c
In RFID, the usual budget for implementation of the cryptographic primitives is:	100-200 gates	200-500 gates	500-1000 gates	200-2000 gates	d