What is the major weakness in WEP, exploited by the PTW attack used in the lab?:	The initialization vector is too short.	No protection against message replay	The integrity check value is too short.	The IV is part of key stream.	b
What is the length of the WEP initialization vector (IV)?:	24 bits	32 bits	48 bits	64 bits	a
How are EAP messages transported between authenticator and the authentication server in RSN?:	EAP messages are encapsulated in TCP/IP	EAP messages are encapsulated in EP-TLS.	EAP messages are encapsulated in VPN.	EAP messages are encapsulated in 802.1X.	a
Which cryptographic algorithm is used in counter mode with cipher block chaining message authentication code protocol in CCMP?:	AES	Michael.	RC4.	KASUMI.	a
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake?:	To compute a fresh pairwise temporal key (PTK) from the pairwise message key (PMK).	To compute a fresh pairwise master key (PMK) from the pairwise transient key (PTK).	To compute a fresh pairwise transient key (PTK) from the pairwie master key (PMK) after both parties have verified the PMK	To comoute a fresh pairwise message key (PMK)from the pairwise trusted key (PTK) generated int the 4-way key agreement.	c
How does the counter mode operation of a block ciper E() work?:	C = E(i) xor i.	C = E(i) xor M xor i.	Ci = E(i) xor M_i.	C = E(i) xor M.	c
Is the complete MAC PDU encrypted by the CCMP?:	Yes, the CCMP uses a shared key.	Yes, the CCMP header is encrypted.	No, the MAC header is not encrypted.	No, the MAC header and the CCMP header are not encrypted	d
Which block cipher mode of operation is used for AES in RSN?:	Counter Mode with Cipher Block Chaiing Message Authentications Code.	Counter Mode with Galois Message Authentication Code.	Cipher Block Chaining with Counter Mode Message Authentication Code.	Cipher Block Chaining with Hashed Message Authenticatio Code.	a
How is the 128 bits start value of the counter for CCMP encryption initialized in RSN?:	By a random IV.	By the concatenation of of IV and the extended IV.	By flag/prority bits, packetnumber, souce-address, and a constant	By source address, destination address, and the MIC value of the MPDU.	c
Which 802.11 frame is cryptographically protected by the 802.11w standard?:	Data frames.	Control frames.	Management frames	Beacon frames.	c
How is the subscriber identity protected from the radio channel evesdropping in UTMS?:	By the network providing temporary subscriber identities to the USIMs	By keeping the subscriber identity in the USIM only.	By stroing the 128-bit secret key (K_imsi) in the USIM, and distribute only to trusted VLRs.	By using the IEMI instead of the IMSI.	a
Which information is sent from the HSS to the MME during the LTE/EPS authentication protocol?:	IMSI, RAND, AUTN, XRES.	RAND, AUTN, XRES, K_ASME	RAND, AUTN XRES, CK, IK.	RAND, AUTN, XRES, K_c.	b
Which UTRAN protocol layers provide encryption?:	MAC layer and RRC layer.	RLC layer and RCC layer.	PHY layer and MAC layer.	MAC layer and RLC layer.	d
What happens if the result of the UTRAN cryptoalgorithm negotiation is that user equpment (UE) and the network do not have a common encryption algorithm?:	UTRAN provides a new encryption algorithm as an app download.	The connection is shut downn immediately by UTRAN.	UTRAN may establish the connection without encryption	UTRAN does not use encryption algorithm negotiation.	c
In which mode oof operation is KASUMI used for constructing the 3GPP f8 key stream generator?:	Combining Counter Mode and ECB-mode.	Combining Counter Mode and CCM-mode.	Combining Counter Mode and OFB-mode.	Combining Counter Mode and CBC-mode.	c
What was the underlying assumtion for the MILENAGE security analysis?:	No assumtions were made.	The kernel function must be a secure block cipher.	AES must be used as the kernel function.	The kernel function must be a one-way function.	b
Why can the USIM be physically removed from the rest of the UE?:	The UC manufacturing and lifecycle can be  managed independantly from the personalization and subscription process.	The failiure rate of the integrated of the integrated curcuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to reduce the cost for short subscription duration.	End-to-end YTMS key-card may be plugged into the USIM slot for the key distribution and management.	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced.	a
What is the bit length of the permanent subscriber key in UTMS?:	56	64	128	256	c
Theend points of the user data encryption in EPS are:	The UICC and the eNB.	The UE and the MME.	The UE and the eNB	The UICCand the MME.	c
The end points of a signal-message encryption in the EPS access stratum are:	The UICC and the eNB.	The UE and the eNB.	The eNB and the MME.	The UE and the MME.	b
The end points of signal-message integrity protection in the EPS non-stratum access are:	The UICC and the eNB.	The UE and the eNB.	The eNB and the MME.	The UE and the MME.	d
Does LTE/EPS provide end-to-end data security?:	No.	Yes, but only authenticity.	Yes, but only anonymity.	Yes, both confidentiality and authenticity.	a
Can 3G USIM work in an LTE UE handset?:	No, beacause the cryptkeys must be kept in the USIM.	No, because the cryptkeys are not compatible.	Yes, because the USIM cryptkey output is the same in the two systems	Yes, because the crytpkeys are the same in both systems.	c
Where does the key derivation function KDF of EPS reside?:	In the USIM and the AuC.	Inn the USIM and the UE.	In the UE and the MME.	In the UE and the HSS.	d
What is lawfull interception in mobile communication networks?:	Eavsdroppinf approved by judicial court.	Eavsdropping performed on behalf of the police authorities.	Siganl jamming by the police authorities.	Law enforcement cammand to the mobil operators to turn off the communication encryption in order to enable eavsdropping.	a