Is the same key used for both authentication and encryption in WEP?	Yes	No	Yes, if 802.1X authentication is not used	The same key is never used twice	a
How does WEP detect replay?	There is no replay detection	By the intialization vector (IV)	By the integrity check value (ICV)	By the random nonce value (RNV)	a
How long is the IV used in TKIP?	24 bits	48 bits	64 bits	128 bits	b
Which protocol encapsulates the EAP messages transported between the supplicant and authenticator in WPA/RSN?	EAP-TLS	EAPOL	802.11	802.1X	b
What is the purpose of the first phase of PEAP	The supplicant provides the identity to the authentication server	The supplicant and authentication server negotiate the EAP method to be used	The supplicant encrypt and communicate the password to the authenticator	Supplicant establishes an authenticated secrecy channel to the authentication server	d
Which 802.11 frame type is cryptographically protected by the 802.11w standard?	Management frames	Control frames	Data frames	Beacon frames	a
How is the 128 bits start value of the counter for CCMP encryption initialized in RSN?	By a random IV	By the concatenation of IV ad the extended IV	By the concatenation of flag/priority bits, packetnumber, source-address, and a constant	By source address, desination address and the MIC value of the MPDU	c
What is the key size of AES as used in RSN?	128 bits	192 bits	256	bits	512 bits	a
Does EAP-SIM provide mutual authentication?	No, it uses the regular GSM authentication	Yes, it uses the regular UMTS authentication	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and the authentication token from the AuC	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and nonce in the encrypted AP response	d
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake?	To exchange a fresh pairwise temporal key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK)	To exchange a fresh pairwise message key (PMK) from the pairwise transient key (PTK)	To exchange a fresh pairwise transient key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK) with bilateral key agreement and group key transfer	To exchange a fresh pairwise message key (PMK) from the pairwise trusted key (PTK) generated in the 4-way key agreement including group key distribution	c
What are the four types of EAPL messages used in WPA/RSN?	Start, Key, Packet, Logoff	Request, Authenticate, Result, Stop	Identity, Challenge, Response, Accept	Logon, Name, Password, Logoff	a
What is the purpose of the sequence number (SQN) used in 3G/UMTS networks?	The USIM can detect replay of authentication messages	The VLR/SGSN can detect replay of authentication messages	The UE can verify the MAC values by using f1	The HLR/AuC can generate distinct session keys	a
List the message authentication code types used in UMTS	MIC, MAC	MAC-A, MAC-I, MAC-S	IK, AK	AUTN, AUTS	b
What are the three most important security services in GSM?	User authentication, radio channel confidentiality, and temporary identities	Subscriber Identity Module, Visiting Location Register, and Authentication Centre	User identification, end-to-end encryption, and symetric key exchange	The cryptographic algorithms A3, A5 and A8	a
What are the variables of the authentication token (AUTN) used in UMTS networks?	SQN xor AK, XRES, MAC	SQN xor AK, AMF, MAC	SQN, AMF, MAC, RAND	SQN xor AK, AMF, MAC, RAND	b
Which UTRAN layers provide encryption?	MAC layer and RRC layer	RLC layer and RRC layer	PHY layer and MAC layer	MAC layer and RLC layer	d
Which UTRAN layer provides integrity protection?	MAC layer	RLC layer	RRC layer	PHY layer	c
What is a call session control function (CSCF)?	A SIP server or proxy used in IMS	A Mobile Switching Centre (MSC) with IMS support	A GPRS Support Node (GSN) with IMS support	A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) session controller used in IMS	a
What is the length of the cipher key CK used in UMTS?	56 bits	64 bits	128 bits	256 bits	c
How many rounds does the KASUMI cipher use?	8	10	12	16	a
What kind of ciper is KASUMI?	Stream cipher	Feistel cipher	Substitution-permutation cipher	Nonlinear feedback shiftregister cipher	b
Why is the UICC normally easily removable from the mobile station?	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	End-to-end UMTS key-card plugs into the USIM slot for key-distribution and management	The UE manufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	d
Why must the USIM implementation be tamper-proof?	To facilitate the mobile operator with secure computation and stroage at the UE side	To protect the proprietary crypto-algorithms of the mobile operator	To protect the subscriber against unauthorized modification of the subscription parameters	To provide the subscriber with a PIN-protected access to the UMTS service	a
How is a oneway hash function useful in digital forensic investigations?	For fast recognition of known file content	For reconstructing the hash tables of deleted files	For juridical determination of incriminating file content	For legally sound presentation of the digital evidence	a
What are the purpose of the MILENAGE functions in UMTS	Block cipher family of functions that build the algorithms for integrity code and the encryption process	Transformation of keys for the inter-operation of GSM and UMTS basestations and networks	Pseudorandom generators that output the initializing values for the cryptographic computations	Algorithms for computing the cryptograohic variables needed in the mutual authentication protocols	d