Question	Topic
Does CCMP provide confidentiality, integrity, or both?
Does EAP-SIM provide mutual authentication?
Does Windows 10 Wi-Fi Sense allow sharing of 802.11i keys?
Does Windows 10 Wi-Fi Sense enforce access control to wireless networks?
Does WPA support TKIP, CCMP or both?
How are EAP messages transported between the authenticator and the authentication server in RSN?
How are EAP messages transported between the supplicant and authenticator in WPA/RSN?
How are the fragmentation and chopchop attacks different from the PTW attack?
How does initialization vector (IV) reuse compromise confidentiality?
How does the counter mode operation of a block cipher E() work?
How does the integrity check value (ICV) in WEP protect against message modification?
How does WEP provide replay protection?
How is IEEE 802.11 CCMP nonce input constructed?
How is the 128 bits start value of the counter for CCMP encryption initialized in RSN?
How is the 64-bit message integrity code (MIC) value in CCMP derived from the 128-bit final block?
How is the counter in CCMP initialized?
How is the IEEE 802.11 CCMP nonce input constructed?
How is the integrity check value (ICV) in WEP computed?
How is the PMK distributed in RSN?
How long is the CCMP header, and how long is the packet number contained in this header?
How long is the integrity check value (ICV) in WEP?
How long is the IV used in TKIP?
How long is the IV used in TKIP?
How long is the PTK when CCMP is used?
How long is the PTK when TKIP is used?
How many EAP-TLS messages are exchanged in an EAP-TLS handshake?
How many messages are exchanged in a group key handshake?
How many messages are exchanged in the WEP shared key authentication?
How many messages are exchanged in the WPS in-band registration protocol?
How many states does the 802.11 State Machine contain?
How many TKIP sequence numbers does a receiver keep track of?
Is the complete MAC PDU encrypted by the CCMP?
Is the same key used for authentication and encryption in WEP?
Is they MIC key be recovered in the attack on TKIP by Beck & Tews?
The PTK is a collection of several keys. List these keys and their length when CCMP is used:
The PTK is a collection of several keys. List these keys and their length when TKIP is used:
What are the consequences of the chopchop-like attack on TKIP by Beck & Tews?
What are the consequences of the fragmentation attacks, e.g., by Bittau et al. ?
What are the five input values to the CCMP Decryption block?
What are the four input values to the CCMP Encryption block?
What are the four types of EAPOL messages used in WPA/RSN?
What are the input elements to the pseudo-random function used to compute the PTK?
What are the RAND, SRES and Kc values in an EAP-SIM triplet?
What encapsulates EAP messages in RSN?
What is 'Michael' in WPA/RSN?
What is a mutable field in CCMP?
What is an RC4 weak key?
What is an RSN group key?
What is ARP re-injection used for in the attacks on WEP?
What is EAP?
What is EAPOL, and how is it used in WPA/RSN?
What is Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)?
What is Michael in WPA/RSN?
What is the 128-bit start value for RSN CCMP encryption?
What is the block length of AES as used in RSN?
What is the consequence of the PTW attack on WEP?
What is the format of the first block used for the CBC-MAC computation in CCMP?
What is the key size of AES as used in RSN?
What is the length of the Kc value used in EAP-SIM?
What is the length of the WEP initialization vector (IV)?
What is the major weakness in WEP, exploited by the PTW attack used in the lab?
What is the problem with the WEP authentication protocol (which is therefore rarely used in practice)?
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake?
What is the purpose of the first phase of PEAP?
What is the purpose of the first two messages of the WPS in-band registration protocol?
What is the purpose of the second phase of PEAP?
What is the Rijndael algorithm?
What is the technical problem in the session hijacking threat in 802.11/WLAN?
What kind of security capabilities are supported in a transitional security network (TSN)?
What properties of TKIP are exploited in the chopchop-like attack on TKIP by Beck & Tews?
What type of 802.11 authentication does Algorithm Number 0 or 1 indicate?
Which frame types are cryptographically protected  by 802.11i?
Which frame types are cryptographically protected by 802.11w?
Which block cipher mode of operation is used for AES in RSN?
Which block cipher mode of operation is used for AES in RSN?
Which cryptographic algorithm is used by CCMP?
Which cryptographic algorithm is used by TKIP?
Which cryptographic algorithm is used in counter mode with cipher block chaining message authentication code protocol  in CCMP?
Which cryptographic algorithm is used in counter mode with cipher block chaining message authentication code protocol (CCMP)?
Which encryption algorithm is used in WEP?
Which identity does the EAP-Identity response in EAP-SIM contain?
Which message type triggers a transition to 802.11 State 1?
Which of the following is a security concern with Windows 10 Wi-Fi Sense?
Which parts of an MPDU encrypted under CCMP are not encrypted?
Which protocol encapsulates the EAP messages transported between the supplicant and authenticator in WPA/RSN?
Which protocol encapsulates the EAP messages transported between the supplicant and authenticator in WPA/RSN?
Which protocol state will an 802.11 STA be in after having received a deauthentication notification message?
Which RADIUS attribute contains the encrypted Pairwise Master Key (PMK) in WPA?
Which security method is used in the first phase of PEAP?
Which standard actually enabled practical DoS attacks on 802.11i TKIP? 
Which stream cipher is used for WEP encryption?
Which three entities participate in 802.1X access control?
Which three entities participate in the WPS configuration process?
Will TKIP accept a frame with a TKIP sequence counter value which is 14 less than the largest one seen so far?
Can a 3G USIM work in an LTE UE handset?
Can the security header in MAPsec be encrypted? Why/why not?
Do 3G/UMTS networks provide mutual authentication?
Does a successful run of EPS authentication achieve mutual authentication between mobile station and serving network?
Does EAP-SIM provide mutual authentication?
Does EPS provide end-to-end data security?
Does GSM provide mutual authentication?
Does LTE/EPS provide end-to-end data security?
Does the use of TMSIs protect the IMSI from active attackers?
Explain the purpose and output of the functions f0-f9 used in UMTS.
How does the 3G/UMTS authentication improve the security over the GSM authentication?
How does the EPS authentication improve the security over the 3G/UMTS authentication?
How does the USIM authenticate the network during 3G/UMTS authentication?
How is backward key separation achieved during handovers over X2 connections in EPS?
How is forward key separation achieved during handovers over X2 connections in EPS?
How is the EPS key derivation function constructed?
How is the mode of the 3GPP f9 algorithm different from the CBC-MAC mode?
How is the subscriber identity protected from radio channel eavesdropping in GSM?
How is the subscriber identity protected from radio channel eavesdropping in UMTS?
How is the user identity protected in GSM?
How long are the cipher key (CK) and integrity key (IK) used in UTRAN, and how are they obtained if a GSM SIM is used to access a UTRAN?
How long is the keystream block output by the f8 algorithm?
How long is the session key K_c used in GSM?
How many rounds does the KASUMI cipher use?
How the initial RRC connection request message is sent in UMTS Security Setup Procedure?
In which mode of operation is KASUMI used for constructing the 3GPP f8 key stream generator?
Is mutual authentication provided when a SIM is used to access a UTRAN?
Is the network domain security for the core network sufficient to protect the UMTS/LTE authentication and key agreement messages against parallel session attacks?
List the message authentication codes (MACs) used in UMTS and explain their purpose.
Sketch the 3GPP f8 stream cipher structure, using the KASUMI function as a black box.
Sketch the 3GPP f9 cipher structure, using the KASUMI function as a black box.
The end points of the user data encryption in EPS are 2011
What are the components of the authentication token (AUTN) used in 3G/UMTS networks?
What are the consequences of the false base station attack on GSM?
What are the consequences of the redirection attack against UMTS authentication?
What are the contents of the AUTS parameter in 3G/UMTS networks, and what is it used for?
What are the end points of signalling encryption in the EPS access stratum?
What are the end points of signalling integrity in the EPS non-stratum access?
What are the end points of user data encryption in UMTS?
What are the inputs of the authentication function A3 used in GSM?
What are the inputs to the f8 algorithm used in UMTS, and what are their lengths?
What are the inputs to the f9 algorithm used in UMTS, and what are their lengths?
What are the MILENAGE functions in UMTS used for?
What are the purpose of the MILENAGE functions in UMTS?
What are the three functional requirements for UMTS authentication?
What are the three most important security features in GSM?
What are the two basic strategies for creating SQNs in 3G/UMTS networks?
What are the variables of the authentication token (AUTN) used in UMTS networks?
What happens if the result of the UTRAN algorithm negotiation is that the user equipment (UE) and network have no encryption algorithms in common?
What happens if the result of the UTRAN algorithm negotiation is that the user equipment (UE) and network have no integrity protection algorithms in common?
What is a call session control function (CSCF)?
What is cryptographic network separation (in EPS)?
What is lawful interception?
What is required to spoof a de-registration message in user de-registration request spoofing?
What is Snow 3G and why is it used in UMTS and EPS?
What is the 3GPP value OP, and what is the length of this value?
What is the bit length of the permanent subscriber key in UMTS?
What is the block length of the block cipher used by MILENAGE?
What is the block size of the KASUMI function used by the f8 algorithm?
What is the content and use of the UMTS AUTS parameter?
What is the length of the cipher key CK used in UMTS?
What is the length of the permanent subscriber key K in UMTS?
What is the length of the user’s secret key in GSM technology?
What is the output of the authentication function A3 used in GSM?
What is the output of the UMTS $f9$ algorithm?
What is the purpose of the sequence number (SQN) used in 3G/UMTS networks?
What kind of cipher is KASUMI?
What was the underlying assumption for the MILENAGE security analysis?
Where are the UMTS functions f1-f5, f1* and f5* implemented?
Where does the key derivation function KDF of EPS reside?
Where is the secret user key K_i used in GSM stored?
Where is the sequence number (SQN) used in 3G/UMTS networks generated?
Which authentication data does the GSM VLR have to request?
Which authentication method is used by IMS?
Which cipher mode does the 3GPP f8 stream cipher use?
Which CSCF handles SIP registration requests and informs the Home Subscriber Server (HSS)?
Which encryption schemes are specified in EPS?
Which function is used to generate the key K_c in GSM?
Which GSM entities store the secret user keys Ki?
Which part of IEEE 802.16 MAC PDU is encrypted?
Which three modes does the confidentiality algorithm in UMTS support?
Which UMTS entities implement the functions f1-f5, f1* and f5*?
Which UTRAN layer provides handovers, preparations for handovers to GSM and cell reselection?
Which UTRAN layer provides integrity protection?
Which UTRAN layers provide encryption?
Which values are sent from the AuC to the VLR/SGSN during 3G/UMTS authentication?
Which values are sent from the HLR/AuC to the VLR during GSM authentication?
Which values are sent from the HSS to the MME during the LTE/EPS authentication protocol?
Which WiMAX entity is generating the Traffic Encryption Key (TEK)?  2010
Why are the keys CK & IK generated in EPS even though they are not directly used?
Why can the USIM be removed from the rest of the UE?
Why does EPS provide a more complex key hierarchy than UMTS and GSM?
Why is the NAS Security Mode Command message in EPS never encrypted?
Why is the redirection attack against UMTS authentication possible?
Why is the UICC normally easily removable from the mobile station?
Why must the USIM implementation be tamper-proof?
Will 3G USIMs work with EPS UE handsets?
Can a keyed checksum be used as message authentication code?
Does breaking collision resistance of a hash function imply breaking pre-image resistance or the other way around?
Does breaking collision resistance of a hash function imply breaking second pre-image resistance or the other way around?
Does EPID have a mechanism for key revocation?
How can one show that P ? NP if one can prove the existence of one-way functions.
How to solve the potential malicious traffic discovery problem in WIDS?
Intuitively, what does it mean for a message authentication code to be 'existentially unforgeable against chosen message attacks'?
Is a stream cipher as secure as the one-time pad?
Is a stream cipher malleable?
Is the CBC-MAC a secure message authentication code if the IV is constant 0 ?
What are the advantages of the counter mode of encryption, e.g., in comparison to the CBC mode?
What are the entities in EPID?
What are the general steps performed by intrusion detection systems for mobile ad-hoc networks?
What are the problems with Intrusion Detection System in real life?
What are the problems with MAC Sequence Number Analysis in Intrusion Detection Systems?
What are the two main security functionalities of a smart card?
What is Internet Key Exchange?
What is lawful interception in mobile communication networks?
What is the difference between a checksum and a cryptographic message authentication code?
What is the difference between a smart card and a SIM?
What is the difference between a stream cipher and the one-time pad?
What is the main difference between wired and wireless Intrusion Detection Systems in terms of functionality?
What is the problem with MAC Sequence Number Analysis in Intrusion Detection Systems?
What is the purpose of the EPID 'join' procedure?
Why can the USIM be removed from the rest of the UE?
Why is it a security requirement that the USIM implementation must be tamperproof?
Why is it not sufficient to base the construction of a one-way function f on an NP-hard problem (i.e. Where inverting f requires solving an NP-hard problem)?
Why is the UICC normally easily removable from the mobile station?	