Does EAP-SIM provide mutual authentication:	No, it uses the regular GSM authentication.	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and the authentication token from the AuC.	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and a nonce in the encrypted AP response.	Yes it uses the regular UMTS authentication.	c
How are EAP messages transported between the authenticator and the authentication server in RSN?	EAP messages are encapsulated in TCP/IP	EAP messages are encapsulated in EAP-TLS	EAP messages are encapsulated in VPN	EAP messages are encapsulated in 802.1X	a
How does the counter mode operation of a block cipher E() work?	C = E(i) xor i	C = E(i) xor M xor i	C_i = E(i) xor M_i	C = E(i) xor M	c
How is the 128 bits start value of the counter for CCMP encryption initialized in RSN?	By a random IV	By the concatenation of IV ad the extended IV	By the concatenation of flag/priority bits, packetnumber, source-address, and a constant	By source address, desination address and the MIC value of the MPDU	c
How is the IEEE 802.11 CCMP nonce input constructed?	The values of the Pairwise Transient Key, the NonceA and the NonceB	the Values of the Pairwise Temporal Key, the Source Address and the Destination Address	The values of the fields Packet Number, Address1, Flag of the MPDU	The values of the fields Packet Number, Address2, Priority of the MPDU	d
How long is the IV used in TKIP:	24 bits.	48 bits.	64 bits.	128 bits.	b
How many EAP-TLS messages are exchanged in an EAP-TLS handshake:	2.	4.	9.	It varies with the TLS parameters exchanged.	c
How many messages are exchanged in the WEP shared key authentication protocol:	2.	3.	4.	5.	c
Is the complete MAC PDU encrypted by the CCMP:	Yes, the CCMP uses a shared key.	No, the MAC header is encrypted.	No, the CCMP header is not encrypted.	No, the MAC header and the CCMP header are not encrypted.	d
Is the same key used for both authentication and encryption in WEP?	Yes	No	Yes, if 802.1X authentication is not used	The same key is never used twice	a
What are the consequences of the Beck and Tews chopchop-like attack on TKIP:	An attacker can avoid the re-keying interval of the MIC failure report frame.	An attacker can decrypt traffic and send packets with custom content.	An attacker can cause packets to be silently dropped.	An attacker can send packets with custom content over QoS channels.	b
What are the four types of EAPL messages used in WPA/RSN?	Start, Key, Packet, Logoff	Request, Authenticate, Result, Stop	Identity, Challenge, Response, Accept	Logon, Name, Password, Logoff	a
What encapsulates EAP messages in RSN:	They are encapsulated in TCP/IP.	They are encapsulated in EAPOL messages.	They are encapsulated in RADIUS messages.	They are encapsulated in EAPOL and RADIUS messages.	d
What is "Michael" in RSN:	Michael is the 32 bits sequence counter scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 64 bits block encryption scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 20 bits replay protection scheme used in TKIP.	Michael is the 64 bits message authentication code used in TKIP	d
What is EAP?	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for mutual authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for smartcartd-based authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of encapsulation messages for upper-layer authentication methods	Extensible Authentication Protocol is a set of authentication server methods	c
What is Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP):	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for mutual authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for upper-layer authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RSN authentication methods.	EAP is a set of encapsulation messages for RADIUS server authentication methods.	b
What is Michael in WPA/RSN?	The encryption algorithm in TKIP	The key mixin algorithm of RC4	The message integrity code of TKIP	the replay protection algorithm of TKIP	c
What is the 128-bit start value for RSN CCMP encryption:	8-bit flag, 104-bit nounce, 16-bit counter; where the nonce created 8-bit priority, 48-bit source address, 48-bit packet number.	128-bit fresh nonce.	16-bit flag, 104 bit nounce, 8-bit counter; where the nonce created 8-bit priority, 48-bit source address and 48-bit packet number.	16-bit packet number. 112-bit nounce.	a
What is the block size of AES as used in RSN:	64 bits.	128 bits.	256 bits.	512 bits.	b
What is the key size of AES as used in RSN?	128 bits	192 bits	256 bits	512 bits	a
What is the length of the WEP initialization vector (IV):	24 bits.	32 bits.	48 bits.	46 bits.	a
What is the major weakness in WEP, exploited by the PTW attack used in the lab?	RC4 is broken even with 104 bit keys	The initialization vector is too short	No protection against message replay	The integrity check value is too short	c
What is the purpose of the EAPOL 4-way handshake:	To compute a fresh pairwise temporal key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK).	To compute a fresh pairwise master key (PMK) from the pairwise transient key (PTK).	To compute a fresh pairwise transiet key (PTK) from the pairwise master key (PMK) after both parties have verified the PMK.	To compute a fresh pairwise message key (PMK) fron the pairwise trusted key (PTK) generated in the 4-way key agreement.	c
What is the purpose of the first phase of PEAP?	The supplicant provides the identity to the authentication server	The supplicant and authentication server negotiate the EAP method to be used	The supplicant encrypt and communicate the password to the authenticator	Supplicant establishes an authenticated secrecy channel to the authentication server	d
Which protocol encapsulates the EAP messages transported between the supplicant and authenticator in WPA/RSN?	EAP-TLS	EAPOL	802.11	802.1X	b
Which security method is used in the first phase of PEAP?	TLS	EAPOL	802.1X	LEAP	a
Which stream cipher is used for WEP encryption:	AES.	DES.	RC4.	RC5.	c
Which three roles participate in the 802.1X access control protocol:	Station, authenticator and authentication center.	Client, server and RADIUS server.	Supplocant, access point and RADIUS server.	Supplicant, authenticator and authentication server.	d
Can the security header in MAPsec be encrypted? Why/why not?	No, because the header consists of {SPI || Original Component ID || TVP}	Yes, because the header consists of {SPI || Original Component ID || TVP}	No, because the MAPsec header must be processed at the receiving end	Yes, because an IPsec tunnel is set up	c
Does EAP-SIM provide mutual authentication:	No, it uses the regular GSM authentication.	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and the authentication token from the AuC.	Yes, by the regular GSM authentication and a nonce in the encrypted AP response.	Yes it uses the regular UMTS authentication.	c
Does EPS provide end to end data security	No	Yes but only authenticity	Yes but only anonymity	Yes both confidentiality and authenticity	a
Does GSM provide mutual authentication?	No	Yes	Operator dependent	In cooperation with UMTS	a
How is forward key separation achieved during handovers over X2 connections in EPS:	The target eNB gets a fresh key from MME immediately after handover.	The target eNB gets a fresh key from MME right before handover.	The source eNB proides a key KeNB to the target eNB by applying a one-way function to the old key.	Forward key separation is not achieved only backward key separation.	a
How is the subscriber identity protected from radio channel eavesdropping in GSM?	By the network providing temporary subscriber identities to the SIMs	by storing the subscriber identity in the SIM only	By storing the 128-bit secret key (K_IMSI) in the SIM and distributed only to trusted VLRs	By using IMEI instead of the IMSI	a
How is the subscriber identity protected from radio channel eavesdropping in GSM:	By a temporary subscriber identity	By the subscriber key encryption	By the tamper-resistant SIM card	The subscriber identity is not protected in GSN, only in UMTS and LTE	a
How many rounds does the KASUMI cipher use?	8	10	12	16	a
In which mode of operation is KASUMI used for constructing the 3GPP f8 key stream generator?	Combining Counter-mode and ECB-mode	Comining Counter-mode and CCM-mode	Combining Counter mode and OFB-mode	Combining Counter-mode and CBC-mode	c
Is mutual authentication provided when a GSM SIM is used to access a UTRAN:	Yes, between the MS and the RNC.	Yes, between the MS and the core network, but not the RNC.	No, the GSM SIM cannot authenticate the base station.	No, the GSM SIM cannot connect to a UTRAN.	b
What are the consequences of the Zhang and Fang redirection attack against UMTS authentication:	Because serving networks are not authenticated in UMTS, and attacker can redirect traffic via servers abroad, causing roaming fees.	Because serving networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can learn the session keys.	Because core networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can redirect the traffic to an authentication center abroad, causing roaming fees.	Because core networks are not authenticated in UMTS, an attacker can learn the session keys.	a
What are the inputs of the GSM authentication function A3:	Ki and RAND and XRES	RAND and XRES	Ki and XRES	Ki and RAND	d
What are the purpose of the MILENAGE functions in UMTS	Block cipher family of functions that build the algorithms for integrity code and the encryption process	Transformation of keys for the inter-operation of GSM and UMTS basestations and networks	Pseudorandom generators that output the initializing values for the cryptographic computations	Algorithms for computing the cryptograohic variables needed in the mutual authentication protocols	d
Is the same key used for both authentication and encryption in WEP?	Yes, if 802.1X authentication is not used	The same key is never used twice	No	Yes	d
What are the three functional requirements for UMTS authentication?	Mutual authentication between USIM and HSS, securing the radio channel communication, and end-to-end confidentiality	Mutual authentication betweeen USIM and AuC, securing the radio channel communication, and user identity confidentiality	Confidentiality and privacy for the subscriber, and mutual authentication for the service provider	AV generation at AuC, key transport to the RNC, and the SQN synchronization	b
What are the three most important security services in GSM?	User authentication, radio channel confidentiality, and temporary identities	Subscriber Identity Module, Visiting Location Register, and Authentication Centre	User identification, end-to-end encryption, and symetric key exchange	The cryptographic algorithms A3, A5 and A8	a
What are the variables of the authentication token (AUTN) used in UMTS networks:	SQN XOR AK, XRES, MAC.	SQN XOR AK, AMF, MAC.	SQN, AMF, MAC, RAND.	SQN XOR AK, AMF, MAC, RAND.	b
What happens if the result of the UTRAN algorithm negotiation is that the user equipment (UE) and network have no integrity protection algorithems in common:	The network may establish the connection without integrity protection.	The connection is shut down immediately by the network.	The network may establish the connection with the default integrity protection algorithm.	UTRAN does not use integrity algorithm negotiation.	b
What is a call session control function (CSCF)?	A SIP server or proxy used in IMS	A Mobile Switching Centre (MSC) with IMS support	A GPRS Support Node (GSN) with IMS support	A Real-time Transport Protocol (RTP) session controller used in IMS	a
What is the content and use of the UMTS AUTS parameters:	SQN xor AK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the network side.	SQN xor CK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the network side.	SQN xor AK, MAC-S. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the MS side.	SQN xor CK, MAC-s. Resynchronization when the SQN check fails on the MS side.	c
What is the length of the cipher key CK used in UMTS:	56 bits.	64 bits.	128 bits.	256 bits.	c
What is the output of the GSM authentication function A3:	MAC (32-bit message authentication code).	MAC (64-bit message authentication code).	SRES (32-bit signet response).	SRES (64-bit signed response).	c
What is the output of the UMTS f9 algorithm:	It is a 32-bit MAC.	It is an indefinite length keystream.	It is a 64-bit block ciphertext.	It is a 32-bit authenticated ciphertext.	a
What is the purpose of the sequence number (SQN) used in 3G/UMTS networks?	The USIM can detect replay of authentication messages	The VLR/SGSN can detect replay of authentication messages	The UE can verify the MAC values by using f1	The HLR/AuC can generate distinct session keys	a
What kind of ciper is KASUMI?	Stream cipher	Feistel cipher	Substitution-permutation cipher	Nonlinear feedback shiftregister cipher	b
What was the underlying assupmtion for the MILENAGE security analysis?	No assumptions were made	The kernel funjction must be a robust block cipher	AES must be used as the kernel function	The kernel function must be a oneway function	b
Where does the key derivation function KDF of EPS reside	In the UICC and the HSS	In the UICC and the UE	In the UE and the MME	In the UE and the AuC	a
Which authentication data does the GSM VLR have to request:	The authentication quintet (RAND, AUTN, XRES, CK, IK).	The authentication quintet (RAND, AUTN, XRES, Ki, Kc).	The authentication triplet (RAND, XRES, Ki).	The authentication triplet (RAND, XRES, Kc).	d
Which authentication method is used by IMS:	Internet Key Exchange (IKE).	IPsec Authentication Header (AH).	IPsec Encapsulated Security Payload (ESP).	UMTS Authentication and key agreement (AKA).	d
Which CSCF handles SIP registration requests and informs the Home Subscription Server (HSS)?	All	P-CSCF	I-CSCF	S-CSCF	d
Which GSM entities store the secret user keys Ki:	MS and HLR.	VLR and AuC.	SIM and AuC.	SIM, BS and VLR.	c
Which three modes does the confidentiality algorithm in UMTS support?	RLC-Transparent, RLC-Unacknowledged, RLC-Acknowledged	RRC-Transparent, RRC-Unacknowledged, RRC-Acknowledged	RLC-Transparent, RRC-Unacknowledged, RLC-Acknowledged	RRC-Transparent, RLC-Unacknowledged, RRC-Acknowledged	a
Which UMTS entities implement the functions f1-f5, f1* and f5*:	USIM, UE and BS.	SGSN and AuC.	USIM and AuC.	USIM, BSC and AuC.	c
Which UTRAN layer provides integrity protection?	MAC layer	RLC layer	RRC layer	PHY layer	c
Which UTRAN layers provide encryption?	MAC layer and RRC layer	RLC layer and RRC layer	PHY layer and MAC layer	MAC layer and RLC layer	d
Which WiMAX entityis generation the Traffic Encryption Key (TEK)?	The Base Station	The AAA Server	The Access Service Network	The Network Service Provider	a
Why can the USIM be removed from the rest of the UE?	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	The UEmanufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	End-to-end UMTS key-card plugs into the USIM slot for key distribution and management	c
Why is the UICC normally easily removable from the mobile station?	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	End-to-end UMTS key-card plugs into the USIM slot for key-distribution and management	The UE manufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	d
Why must the USIM implementation be tamper-proof?	To facilitate the mobile operator with secure computation and stroage at the UE side	To protect the proprietary crypto-algorithms of the mobile operator	To protect the subscriber against unauthorized modification of the subscription parameters	To provide the subscriber with a PIN-protected access to the UMTS service	a
What are the general steps performed by intrusion detection systems for mobile ad-hoc networks:	Data Collection and Retaliation.	Data Collection, Detection, and Response.	Node Detection, Obstruction, and Response.	Node Detection, Rendering, and Alarm.	b
What is the difference between a checksum code and a chryptographic message authentication code:	There is no difference, they are only different terms for the same primitive.	A message authentication code can be used to construct a checksum, but not the other way around.	A checksum can be (re-)computed by an attacker, the authentication code cannot.	A keyed checksum provides stronger message integrity protection than a message authentication code.	c
What is the problem with MAC Sequence Number Analysis in Intrusion Detection Systems:	The MAC Sequence Number Analysis does not work at all because the sequence numbers are not integrity protected.	The MAC Sequence Numbers only protect against message replay attacks, but not against session hijacking.	Each class in QoS (WMM) has its own sequence number. Also an attacker can still hijack a session when the victim goes offline.	Implementatinos very often use a constant value as MAC Sequence Number, and, therefore, this does not even protect against replay attacks.	c
Why can the USIM be removed from the rest of the UE?	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	The UEmanufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	End-to-end UMTS key-card plugs into the USIM slot for key distribution and management	c
Why is the UICC normally easily removable from the mobile station?	The USIM holds an expiration date and, like credit cards, must be replaced	The failure rate of the integrated circuit cards (UICCs) are high because the issuers (mobile operators) want to optimize cost against subscription duration	End-to-end UMTS key-card plugs into the USIM slot for key-distribution and management	The UE manufacturing and lifecycle can be managed independently from the personalization and subscription process	d